Add the TorchServe integration (#14608)
DataDog/integrations-core: torchserve/README.md

Author: To the Doc team: The readme file is not ready yet, I'll update that part once the log collection will be ready 🙂 I'll ping you on slack

Author: Should be ok now!

# Agent Check: TorchServe

## Overview

This check monitors [TorchServe][1] through the Datadog Agent. 

## Setup

Follow the instructions below to install and configure this check for an Agent running on a host. For containerized environments, see the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][3] for guidance on applying these instructions.

### Installation

The TorchServe check is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package. No additional installation is needed on your server.

<div class="alert alert-warning">This check uses <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/openmetrics/">OpenMetrics</a> to collect metrics from the OpenMetrics endpoint TorchServe can expose, which requires Python 3.</div>

### Prerequisites

The TorchServe check collects TorchServe's metrics and performance data using three different endpoints:

>    - The [Inference API][14] to collect the overall health status of your TorchServe instance, 
>    - The [Management API][13] to collect metrics on the various models you are running,
>    - The [OpenMetrics endpoint][15] exposed by TorchServe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The [Inference API][14] to collect the overall health status of your TorchServe instance.
   - The [Management API][13] to collect metrics on the various models you are running.
   - The [OpenMetrics endpoint][15] exposed by TorchServe.
```

You can configure these endpoints using the `config.properties` file, as described in [the TorchServe documentation][10]. For example:

```
inference_address=http://0.0.0.0:8080
management_address=http://0.0.0.0:8081
metrics_address=http://0.0.0.0:8082
metrics_mode=prometheus
number_of_netty_threads=32
default_workers_per_model=10
job_queue_size=1000
model_store=/home/model-server/model-store
workflow_store=/home/model-server/wf-store
load_models=all
```

> This configuration file expose the three different endpoints that can be used by the integration to monitor your instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration file exposes the three different endpoints that can be used by the integration to monitor your instance.
```

#### OpenMetrics endpoint

> To enable the prometheus endpoint, you need to configure two options: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the Prometheus endpoint, you need to configure two options: 
```

- `metrics_address`: Metrics API binding address. Defaults to `http://127.0.0.1:8082`
- `metrics_mode`: Two metric modes are supported: `log` and `prometheus`. Defaults to `log`. You have to set it to `prometheus` to collect metrics from this endpoint.

For instance:

```
metrics_address=http://0.0.0.0:8082
metrics_mode=prometheus
```

> In this case, the OpenMetrics endpoint will be exposed at this URL: `http://<TORCHSERVE_ADDRESS>:8082/metrics`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the OpenMetrics endpoint is exposed at this URL: `http://<TORCHSERVE_ADDRESS>:8082/metrics`.
```

### Configuration

These three different endpoints can be monitored independently and must be configured separately in the configuration file, one API per instance. See the [sample torchserve.d/conf.yaml][4] for all available configuration options.

<!-- xxx tabs xxx -->
<!-- xxx tab "OpenMetrics endpoint" xxx -->
#### Configure the OpenMetrics endpoint

> Configuration options for the OpenMetrics endpoint can be found in the configuration file under the `TorchServe OpenMetrics endpoint configuration` section. The minial configuration only requires the `openmetrics_endpoint` option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration options for the OpenMetrics endpoint can be found in the configuration file under the `TorchServe OpenMetrics endpoint configuration` section. The minimal configuration only requires the `openmetrics_endpoint` option:
```

```yaml
init_config:
  ...
instances:
  - openmetrics_endpoint: http://<TORCHSERVE_ADDRESS>:8082/metrics
```

> A lot more options are available for this endpoint, as you can see in the [sample torchserve.d/conf.yaml][4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more options, see the [sample `torchserve.d/conf.yaml` file][4].
```

> TorchServe allows the custom service code to emit metrics that will be available based on the configured `metrics_mode` as explained in [their documentation][11]. You can configure this integration to collect these metrics using the `extra_metrics` option. These metrics will have the `torchserver.openmetrics` prefix, just like any other metrics coming from this endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TorchServe allows the custom service code to emit [metrics that will be available based on the configured `metrics_mode`][11]. You can configure this integration to collect these metrics using the `extra_metrics` option. These metrics will have the `torchserver.openmetrics` prefix, just like any other metrics coming from this endpoint.
```

> <div class="alert alert-info">These custom TorchServe metrics will be considered as standard metrics in Datadog.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">These custom TorchServe metrics are considered standard metrics in Datadog.</div>
```

<!-- xxz tab xxx -->
<!-- xxx tab "Inference API" xxx -->
#### Configure the Inference API

> This integration relies on the [Inference API][14] to get the overall status of your TorchServe instance. Configuration options for the Inference API can be found in the [configuration file][4] under the `TorchServe Inference API endpoint configuration` section. The minial configuration only requires the `inference_api_url` option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration relies on the [Inference API][14] to get the overall status of your TorchServe instance. Configuration options for the Inference API can be found in the [configuration file][4] under the `TorchServe Inference API endpoint configuration` section. The minimal configuration only requires the `inference_api_url` option:
```

```yaml
init_config:
  ...
instances:
  - inference_api_url: http://<TORCHSERVE_ADDRESS>:8080
```

> Under the hood, this integration leverages the [ping][12] endpoint to collect the overall health status of your TorchServe server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration leverages the [Ping endpoint][12] to collect the overall health status of your TorchServe server.
```

<!-- xxz tab xxx -->
<!-- xxx tab "Management API" xxx -->
#### Configure the Management API

> You can collect metrics related to the models that are currently running in your TorchServe server using the [Management API][13]. Configuration options for the Inference API can be found in the [configuration file][4] under the `TorchServe Management API endpoint configuration` section. The minial configuration only requires the `management_api_url` option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can collect metrics related to the models that are currently running in your TorchServe server using the [Management API][13]. Configuration options for the Inference API can be found in the [configuration file][4] under the `TorchServe Management API endpoint configuration` section. The minimal configuration only requires the `management_api_url` option:
```

```yaml
init_config:
  ...
instances:
  - management_api_url: http://<TORCHSERVE_ADDRESS>:8081
```

> By default, the integration collects data from every single models, up to 100 models. This can be modified using the `limit`, `include` and `exclude` options. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the integration collects data from every single models, up to 100 models. This can be modified using the `limit`, `include`, and `exclude` options. For example:
```

```yaml
init_config:
  ...
instances:
  - management_api_url: http://<TORCHSERVE_ADDRESS>:8081
    limit: 25
    include: 
      - my_model.* 
```

> This configuration will only collect metrics for model names that match the `my_model.*` regular expression, up to 25 models. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration only collects metrics for model names that match the `my_model.*` regular expression, up to 25 models. 
```

You can also exclude some models:

```yaml
init_config:
  ...
instances:
  - management_api_url: http://<TORCHSERVE_ADDRESS>:8081
    exclude: 
      - test.* 
```

> This configuration will collect metrics for every model name that does not match the `test.*` regular expression, up to 100 models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration collects metrics for every model name that does not match the `test.*` regular expression, up to 100 models.
```

<div class="alert alert-info">You can use the `include` and `exclude` options in the same configuration. The `exclude` filters are applied after the `include` ones.</div>

> By default, the integration will retrieve the full list of the models every time the check runs. It's possible to cache this list using the `interval` option for increased performance of this check. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the integration retrieves the full list of the models every time the check runs. You can cache this list by using the `interval` option for increased performance of this check. 
```

<div class="alert alert-warning">Using the `interval` can also delays some metrics and events.</div>

<!-- xxz tab xxx -->
<!-- xxz tabs xxx -->

#### Complete configuration 

> An example of a complete configuration leveraging the three different APIs described in the previous sections would be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates the complete configuration leveraging the three different APIs described in the previous sections:
```

```yaml
init_config:
  ...
instances:
  - openmetrics_endpoint: http://<TORCHSERVE_ADDRESS>:8082/metrics
    # Also collect your own TorchServe metrics
    extra_metrics:
      - my_custom_torchserve_metric
  - inference_api_url: http://<TORCHSERVE_ADDRESS>:8080
  - management_api_url: http://<TORCHSERVE_ADDRESS>:8081
    # Include all the model names that match this regex   
    include:
      - my_models.*
    # But exclude all the ones that finish with `-test`
    exclude: 
      - .*-test 
    # Refresh the list of models only every hour
    interval: 3600
```

> Don't forget to [restart the Agent][5] after modifying the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Restart the Agent][5] after modifying the configuration.
```

### Validation

[Run the Agent's status subcommand][6] and look for `torchserve` under the Checks section.

## Data Collected

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][7] for a list of metrics provided by this integration. 

Metrics are prefixed using the API they are coming from:

> - `torchserve.openmetrics.*` for metrics coming from the OpenMetrics endpoint,
> - `torchserve.inference_api.*` for metrics coming from the Inference API,
> - `torchserve.management_api.*` for metrics coming from the Management API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `torchserve.openmetrics.*` for metrics coming from the OpenMetrics endpoint.
- `torchserve.inference_api.*` for metrics coming from the Inference API.
- `torchserve.management_api.*` for metrics coming from the Management API.
```

### Events

> The TorchServe integration include 3 events using the Management API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TorchServe integration include three events using the Management API:
```

<div class="alert alert-info">You can disable the events setting the `submit_events` option to `false` in your <a href="https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/torchserve/datadog_checks/torchserve/data/conf.yaml.example">configuration file</a>.</div>

### Service Checks

See [service_checks.json][8] for a list of service checks provided by this integration.

### Logs

The TorchServe integration can collect logs from the TorchServe service and forward them to Datadog. 

1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in your `datadog.yaml` file:

   ```yaml
   logs_enabled: true
   ```

2. Uncomment and edit the logs configuration block in your `torchserve.d/conf.yaml` file. Here's an example:

   ```yaml
   logs:
     - type: file
       path: /var/log/torchserve/model_log.log
       source: torchserve
       service: torchserve
     - type: file
       path: /var/log/torchserve/ts_log.log
       source: torchserve
       service: torchserve
   ```

See [the example configuration file][4] on how to collect all logs.

> Logging configuration with TorchServer is detailed in [this section][16] of the official documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about the logging configuration with TorchServer, see the [official PyTorch documentation][16].
```

Author: ```suggestion
For more information about the logging configuration with TorchServer, see the [official TorchServe documentation][16].
```
